# 12 async queues

- Asynchronous queues
- Using queues for producer–consumer workflows
- Using queues with web applications
- Asynchronous priority queues
- Asynchronous LIFO queues

We can add pieces of data into a queue and have several workers running concurrently, pulling
data from the queue and processing it as it becomes available.

## Using queues with web applications

Queues can be useful in web applications when we have a potentially time-consuming
operation that we can run in the background. If we ran this operation in the main
coroutine of the web request, we would block the response to the user until the opera-
tion finished, potentially leaving the end user with a slow, unresponsive page.

Processing an order can take several seconds, but we don’t
want to keep the user waiting for a response that their order has been placed.

A queue also solves the issue of the user waiting too long for a response. Putting an
element on the queue happens instantly, meaning we can notify the user that their
order has been placed right away, providing a fast user experience.

In the real world, of course, this opens up the potential for the background task to fail without the user
being notified, so you’ll need some form of data persistence and logic to combat this.

> One thing to keep in mind when using asyncio queues in web applications is the failure modes of queues. 
What if one of our API instances crashed for some reason,
such as running out of memory, or if we needed to restart the server for a redeploy of
our application? In this case, we would lose any unprocessed orders that are in the
queue, as they are only stored in memory。

要注意考虑错误的情况。** 机器内存耗尽或者 app 重启，我们会失去队列中没有处理完成的订单。** 
- 对于订单这种情景，丢失是不可接受的。
- 对于例如缓存的情况，或许可以接受。

>asyncio queues provide no out-of-the-box concept of task persistence or queue dura-
bility. If we want tasks in our queue to be robust against these types of failures, we need
to introduce somewhere a method to save our tasks, such as a database. More correctly,
however, is using a separate queue outside of asyncio that supports task persistence. Cel-
ery and RabbitMQ are two examples of task queues that can persist to disk。

我们需要另一个队列来持久化任务。Celery 和 RabbitMQ 都可以持久化任务到磁盘。这里，需要多加思考架构上的权衡。

## A web crawler queue

Then, our workers will pull URLs off the queue and use aiohttp to down-
load them. Once we’ve downloaded them, we’ll use a popular HTML parser, Beautiful
Soup, to extract links to put back into the queue.


## Priority queues

Internally, priority queues are backed by heaps (using
the heapq module) instead of Python lists like simple queues.

The property of heaps we take advantage of is that the topmost node is always the smallest element in the tree.

If we always make the smallest node our highest priority one, then the high priority node will always be the first in the queue.

## LIFO queues

use LifoQueue

## Summary

- Queues decouple data generation from data processing, as we can have a pro-
ducer put items into a queue that multiple workers can then process inde-
pendently and concurrently
- asyncio queues are not distributed, not persistent, and not durable. If you need
any of these qualities, you’ll need to look towards a separate architectural com-
ponent, such as Celery or RabbitMQ.